# Summary

Symmio is a permissionless OTC derivatives protocol and clearing layer. This contest focuses on peripheral contracts for our governance token.

## Findings

### [M-1]("https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2025-03-symm-io-stacking-judging/issues/19") Incorrect initializer modifier in Vesting contract prevents proper initialization.

The system states that the `vesting` contract is intended to be inherited by the `symmvesting` contract.

Therefore. it's `initializer` function should not use the `initializer` modifier, instead, it should use `onlyInitializing` modifier.

The Inheritance Model of the contracts

`Vesting` -> `symmvesting`

According to the [Openzeppelin docs]("https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/api/proxy#Initializable-initializer--"), the initializer modifier should only be used in the final initialization function of an inheritance chain, while initialization functions of parent contracts should use the onlyInitializing modifier. This ensures proper initialization when using inheritance.

When both parent and child contracts use the initializer modifier, only one of them can actually complete initialization, as the modifier sets a flag that prevents any subsequent calls to functions with the initializer modifier.

```solidity
function __vesting_init(address admin, uint256 _lockedClaimPenalty, address _lockedClaimPenaltyReceiver) public initializer {
		__AccessControlEnumerable_init();
		__Pausable_init();
		__ReentrancyGuard_init();

		lockedClaimPenalty = _lockedClaimPenalty;
		lockedClaimPenaltyReceiver = _lockedClaimPenaltyReceiver;

		if (admin == address(0) || _lockedClaimPenaltyReceiver == address(0)) revert ZeroAddress();

		_grantRole(DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE, admin);
		_grantRole(SETTER_ROLE, admin);
		_grantRole(PAUSER_ROLE, admin);
		_grantRole(UNPAUSER_ROLE, admin);
		_grantRole(OPERATOR_ROLE, admin);
	}

```

## What went wrong and how to fix it next time.

Didnt review part of this codebase.

## Take aways

* Protocols that adopt proxies;
   - Check for the presence of the onlyinitializing modifier in the init function of the parent contract if its going to be used by an inheriting contract.

## Rewards -> `$39`


### [M-2]("https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2025-03-symm-io-stacking-judging/issues/209") Re-adding the reward token causes userRewardPerTokenPaid to be incorrect for some users, resulting in them receiving too many rewards.

When a token is unwhitelisted or removed in the `configurerewardToken` function, it causes incorrect reward distributions for new stakers when the same token is re-whitelisted or re-added.

Problem comes from the `rewardState[token]` that is not reset when that token is removed or rewhitelisted

```solidity

isRewardToken[token] = status;
		if (!status) {
			if (pendingRewards[token] > 10) revert OngoingRewardPeriodForToken(token, pendingRewards[token]);
			uint256 len = rewardTokens.length;
			for (uint256 i = 0; i < len; i++) {
				if (rewardTokens[i] == token) {
					rewardTokens[i] = rewardTokens[rewardTokens.length - 1];
					rewardTokens.pop();
					break;
				}
			}
		} else {
			rewardTokens.push(token);
			rewardState[token].duration = DEFAULT_REWARDS_DURATION;
		}

```

## What went wrong and how to fix it next time.

* didn't pay attention on the variables that are involved in the whitelisting and re-whitelisting of the reward token.


## Take aways.

* Take note on all variables that are meant to be reset during the removal of a reward token.
* Make sure when I am re-whitelisting or re-adding that same reward token always make sure that the reward distribution methods have been reset e.g variables that are involved.

## Rewards -> `$1,156`

### [M-3]("https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2025-03-symm-io-stacking-judging/issues/650") Double spending attack in the Vesting contract.

`resetVestingPlans` function resets the vesting amount to the amount sent as argument.

A user may manage to frontrun the `SETTER_ROLE` and unlock the full amount, paying the penalty before it settles and then unlock again thus managing to unlock much more than the `SETTER_ROLE` intended to.

```solidity

function _resetVestingPlans(address token, address[] memory users, uint256[] memory amounts) internal {
		if (users.length != amounts.length) revert MismatchArrays();
		uint256 len = users.length;
		for (uint256 i = 0; i < len; i++) {
			address user = users[i];
			uint256 amount = amounts[i];
			// Claim any unlocked tokens before resetting.
			_claimUnlockedToken(token, user);
			VestingPlan storage vestingPlan = vestingPlans[token][user];
			if (amount < vestingPlan.unlockedAmount()) revert AlreadyClaimedMoreThanThis();
			uint256 oldTotal = vestingPlan.lockedAmount();
			vestingPlan.resetAmount(amount);
			totalVested[token] = totalVested[token] - oldTotal + amount;
			emit VestingPlanReset(token, user, amount);
		}
	}

```

## What went wrong and how to fix it next time.

* Didn't read the whole codebase in time making me not understand the whole flow.


## Take aways.

If a trusted role is ever doing something like resetting or removing a value check what variables a malicious user can use to his or her advantage to frontrun the trusted role's tx to benefit his or herself.

## Rewards -> `$1928`

### [H-1]("https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2025-03-symm-io-stacking-judging/issues/136") SymmStaking contracts have a loss of precision in the calculation of rewards.

USDC is used in this protocol as a reward token but the contracts reward per token calculation- which uses 18dp fxed point arithmetic loses precision which results to small incremental rewards computed over short time intervals can round down to zero causing stakers to receive no additional USDC rewards even though rewards are being funded.

```solidity
function rewardPerToken(address _rewardsToken) public view returns (uint256) {
		// basically means if ts == 0, return 0.
		if (totalSupply == 0) {
			return rewardState[_rewardsToken].perTokenStored;
		}
		return
			rewardState[_rewardsToken].perTokenStored +
			(((lastTimeRewardApplicable(_rewardsToken) - rewardState[_rewardsToken].lastUpdated) * rewardState[_rewardsToken].rate * 1e18) /
				totalSupply);
	}

```

## What went wrong and how to fix it next time.

* Really overlooked the formula and didn't check whether it is compatible with the USDC token in terms of its decimals.


## Take aways.

If a protocol accepts ERC-20 tokens with different decimals always make sure that the reward distribution formula always accounts for those tokens e.g `USDC.`

## Rewards -> `$68`


### [M-4]("https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2025-03-symm-io-stacking-judging/issues/203") Wrong check in `VestingPlan::_resetVestingPlans` limits amount that can be set when resetting vesting.

The check in _restVestingPlans ensures that the amount being set is greater than the unlocked amount which doesn't make any sense.

The new amount should be checked against the locked amount as it is effectively replacing the locked amount.

```solidity

	function _resetVestingPlans(address token, address[] memory users, uint256[] memory amounts) internal {
		if (users.length != amounts.length) revert MismatchArrays();
		uint256 len = users.length;
		for (uint256 i = 0; i < len; i++) {
			address user = users[i];
			uint256 amount = amounts[i];
			// Claim any unlocked tokens before resetting.
			_claimUnlockedToken(token, user);
			VestingPlan storage vestingPlan = vestingPlans[token][user];
@>  		if (amount < vestingPlan.unlockedAmount()) revert AlreadyClaimedMoreThanThis();
			uint256 oldTotal = vestingPlan.lockedAmount();
			vestingPlan.resetAmount(amount);
			totalVested[token] = totalVested[token] - oldTotal + amount;
			emit VestingPlanReset(token, user, amount);
		}
	}
```

## What went wrong and how to fix it next time.

* Didn't look much in this part of the codebase.
* Didn't read the docs well enough.


## Take aways.

always validate checks in functions and check whether any unexpected DOS can happen. (Can only do this if you understand the whole codebase)

## Rewards -> `$8`

### [M-5]("https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2025-03-symm-io-stacking-judging/issues/2") Attacker can repeatedly decrease the reward rate by adding tiny rewards causing a loss for existing stakers.

Users can add incentives, which are accumulated by stakers over time. However the reward rate can be manipulated by an attacker who repeatedly adds small amounts of incentives. This increases the duration required for all rewards to be fully accumulated. As a result, new stakers could join and claim rewards intended for the initial stakers, who should have already accumulated all the rewards.

## What went wrong and how to fix it next time.

* Rushed looking at this function.
* Didn't read the docs well enough.


## Take aways.

* Look for ways in which one can influence the reward mechanism of a function through use of small amounts for a given duration.
* Always make sure they are restrictions on who can add amounts of reward tokens (Access Control).
* Implement a minimum amount of reward tokens that can be added to ensure that the total reward amount is meaningfully increased.

## Rewards -> `$0`